so our our panelists here have raised
nearly a billion dollars in funding and
uh that's that's not easy to do that's
that's really hard cons but you know
maybe considering the market today
that is not so hard
so so let's dive right into it the
market is bonkers
valuations are super high i think edith
was the most recent to raise your round
of funding how should founders think
about
fundraising and valuations particularly
in this market yeah so we announced our
series d of 200 million at a 3 billion
valuation
which is pretty fun to say by the way
yeah is it fun yeah i mean it's it's
but but behind that is like seven years
of grinding and the team working
incredibly hard and us getting 2 000
customers and being recognized as the
category leader
so like our first round of funding
i remember a co-founder and me
celebrating about a 15k check from an
angel
like
like we're like okay let's you know this
is you know we were some ramen yeah we
were ground out our first round was like
a 200k friends and family round and that
wow excruciating
definitely and then in terms of
valuations right now are they
what is it 5x two years ago is it 10x
like how should how should founders
think about do they even command the
valuation like how did you go about it
you know
the thing about evaluation is that you
have to grow into it i mean david i
think is actually a counter example
because he's we were talking backstage
like he's about to ipo it's no secret
but um
yeah um
but you've raised very little money and
been very efficient so i i kind of don't
want people to just say like valuation
when your private company mount raise is
the measure of success it's really about
actually producing value
definitely what's your viewpoint on that
share
i mean i think i think the valuations
have gone up because the everybody's
realized the markets are a lot bigger
than they thought and so it all sort of
trickles down as you see these companies
get much much larger than people
expected so
i think it's
it's surprising to people that don't see
the way technology is taking over
industry after industry after industry
definitely david how about you what do
you think about it i think it's all
[__] like i think the uh the reason
the valuations are high is because
there's a [__] ton of money in the
markets and it has no place to go like
there's we just printed what three and a
half trillion dollars of stimulus money
out of nowhere and it went to a whole
bunch of people that have no place to
spend it so it just goes into the banks
the banks have just they're just flush
with cash they give it a tiny fraction
of the vcs and like i don't give a [__]
where it goes to it does not matter
there's a finite number of investments
they're just get super competitive the
money has to go somewhere no one cares
about any of this like none of it makes
any sense and so i think that the idea
like i think there's a part of like oh
the markets are bigger than we realize
the world didn't change it's like it's
the same [__] size and so i think
like maybe maybe that's part of it i
actually don't think that's most of it i
think that most of it is none of this
makes any sense and so as a result
there's just a bunch of money going
around and it's all chaos
can i briefly disagree please
i do think the market has gotten bigger
for sas like i've been going to disaster
back when we i know we're stuffed up on
nob hill
and um
my joke to jason is we you get a bigger
venue and it fills again um but
sas is not this new hot thing anymore
it's now an established category where
you have people who are doing it and the
universe is much bigger in terms of like
this is a way that you could build your
business
instead of it being seen as like a niche
weird thing will it last
yeah but it's not like the market itself
has changed it's become or rather hasn't
grown that much there's hundreds of
millions of businesses in the world and
virtually none of them use any of our
software um it's like on a grand scheme
of things the entire sum of like sas is
still like a rounding error of actually
the global opportunity but it's not that
the opportunity hasn't been there all
along i think that uh we're just finally
finding models that can acquire more of
it but i don't think the market's
changed more of the models have changed
perhaps but even that i still don't even
think that's true because most of the
companies rating this [__] tons of money
they're not using like novel customer
acquisition techniques that couldn't
have worked 20 years ago they're just
willing to lose more money on it and
then the vcs are willing to allow them
to lose more money on it will again
respectfully disagree you know when we
started seven years ago it was a slog to
sell sas
like we had our like our initial
customers would always say do you have
an on-prem version and we would say
no we believe in sas
and they'd say like okay and then they'd
come back a year later and say hey we've
actually moved out of our own data
centers we are ready to buy sas
so it has been this extreme uplift for
us in terms of we're not arguing about
cloud anymore
but there's obviously truth to both
sides of this i mean
the markets are clearly bigger and there
is a lot of money going around and they
converge i think the money also has
other places to go other than sas it
doesn't have to come to us
and it's choosing to come here because i
do think it's the markets are proving to
be more open to these companies taking
over business processes that they didn't
use to be allowed to
but i think what's interesting what's
interesting is
david and i
we're all actually somewhat old-timers
of sas in different generations we've
been through like the three generations
of post sales for sas
salesforce one you and i started
salesforce2
um edith was maybe 2.5 and then coda now
is maybe
2.7 or third generation but you've been
doing this for for a decade and a half
i'll tell you first of all it was
interesting when i did um i did a
podcast with renee lesert from build.com
and his point was there's still six
million buyers at build.com today and
there were when we started so so the tam
in a sense is the same but let me tell
you the jaw-dropping statistic for us
old-timers in the bvp cloud 100 which i
think maybe launched starkly was in
25 of them were growing more than 100
percent at 100 million are
that is the difference in the cloud the
top quartile not the top one or two the
top quartile is growing triple digits at
100 million and when you think about
compounding assuming those have nrrs
approaching north of 100 that means
they're all going to hit a billion in
revenue so that is now as silly as it
sounds that's commonplace right
so what are the odds that any of us will
do it well you know high high
you know and code is interesting the bet
is that it's high yeah right coda has
the team and the technology and you've
taken advantage of the market to raise
and attract evaluations but it's the
same bet for
so that when you when when i tell
old-timers that number like their jaws
drop a little what so but i think the
top quartile grows triple digits at a
hundred million because going triple
digits at 10 million a generation ago
was like that was the magic number could
you actually sustain 100 growth at 10
million five or eight years ago was
you're [__] gonna be a unicorn right
so but that's interesting so the tam
hasn't changed the business model also
hasn't changed
but the awareness that it could scale
has changed perhaps and so people are
willing to like project forward further
now than they were before which can
explain the higher valuations as well
it's easy it's made it easier to buy but
this begs the question that probably
everyone's asking right and and jason
had a great post on this you talked
about just because there's so much money
in the market should you raise right now
i remember you wrote that post um you
still need the metrics so when is the
right time to raise maybe jason
you share your thoughts
i'll defer to the panel i'll say and and
david could be
again a fun challenge to it being
capital efficient because look every
founder in the room there's a trade-off
we'd all love to be capital efficient
like you look at your cap table and you
all wish you all wish a few slices
weren't gone right
either there was that early investor
where you got ripped off or that middle
round where you needed the money and you
look back you're like who owns 22
percent of my company so we all respect
capital official like because it you
know you can only sell 100 of your
company or 90 80 but um
but there are moments these days where
you're an idiot not to take the money
right you're just an idiot and i had a
you know i had um
and so if and especially today if like
you can sell less than five percent of
your company for an attractive price
right let me launch darkly your next
round you only sold seven percent in
that round right you could probably sell
a hundred million at six billion today
to someone just because they want to get
in 100 million 50 million at six you
never even notice the extra 50 million
will so i think you almost have to take
those crazy checks and it's there's good
challenges to it
because i don't think
there's no like down round drama there's
no issues all this stuff that we used to
care about oh my god if you if you raise
a 2i evaluation the world will end i
mean the world just gets a little worse
right it just gets a little worse if the
dilution especially if the dilution is
modest right i mean i think you said
that you do have to be careful about
growing in your evaluation i don't think
it's a
and like you said all of us have been
around the industry long enough to have
seen those things happen and they can
happen so i don't think there is a level
of responsibility but it's definitely
true that every round is you know ours
was 100 at 1.4 it's a
and heavily oversubscribed you could
easily take it more at a higher price
yeah and there's some you you do some
math on where where you think the the
right price of the company is my view is
don't take money from people if you
don't think you can hit their investment
goals
if you're misaligned with your investors
that's going to be trouble at some point
yeah
definitely at some point yeah i mean
i look at taking funding as allowing us
to
invest like so you know we talk a lot
about cac payback and say hypothetically
you're at 18 months that means you have
to pay for all that sales and marketing
18 months before you get that turn yeah
so either that means that you have to
build up this bank from your own
non non-vc funded business or you can
get vc and say hey i'm going to take
this 18 months of capital invested sales
and marketing get the payback in
a year and a half and also by the way
invest in my product so that i continue
to create a category and outrun
competitors
yeah so it's just a choice i don't
they're they're both valid yeah i think
you take money when you
have a plan to spend it yeah i think
because i kind of one thing we're not
talking about is there's there is a risk
of being i think over capitalized and
that it just changes your entire company
you know you lose the idea of caring
about reality
and i think that at some point reality
matters uh now i think you can get a
surprisingly long distance in fact your
entire most of silicon valley
exits before reality even comes into the
picture and that's become our business
model here but i would say if you want
it's like there's kind of two business
models there's like build a viable
business
um which you care about things like
profit margin things like this or you
just sell to a bigger sucker
overwhelmingly silicon valley is based
upon the latter of those and like the
reality is at no point relevant in
actually the cut the uh the
entrepreneurial journey uh and so i
think that if you're going the classic
silicon valley route yeah raise money
early as [__] as much as you can it
doesn't matter terms that like doesn't
matter nothing matters because you're
gonna get out before the music stops and
if you don't you're just gonna wash your
hands and do it all over again like that
is the entire strategy so if your plan
is to basically just take that classic
strategy raise as quickly and as often
as you possibly can don't give a [__]
about anything else take as much
secondary as you can take as much
primary as you can and just like
whatever
on the other hand if you're trying to
actually build a business and you care
about things like i need my employees to
think about you know the customer and
like you know the culture and
scalability and like i'm going to be
here for a long time then i think
there's actually a risk of being over
capitalized because it causes your team
to not care about the important things
until it's too late and so i think that
if you care about building a real
business you should view your your
equity as something that is you should
trade it for something when you have a
plan to spend it this whole idea of
getting a gigantic war chest i think
it's [__] like i think that it's
just a big waste of money and capital
and it just like ruins your company's
culture i mean i think i think obviously
raise money when
thank you thank you
i think i think the truism of like don't
raise money you don't intend to spend
it's that seems fairly obvious i think
there's a big difference in categories
there's certain categories where there
is a race in certain categories where
there's not and and you know the way the
market is moving does matter to that you
know
our category i think there's only so
many blinking cursors that people will
pick and you have to be ahead of that uh
and we can't you know so you have to
invest faster or as fast as the rest of
the market is moving on it and in our
category there's like obvious big
competitors with both microsoft and
google
kind of owning that space and you have
to you know you want to be as fast out
there as possible in that there's other
categories where that doesn't matter and
you you can build your way up as at your
own pace but i think that matters too i
actually completely agree with david
that culture is super important i think
it's a false economy though to say that
if you take vc money you're going to
have a terrible culture uh what were you
saying behind stage just earlier that
basically you can't talk about culture
because every big business sounds
exactly the same
yes although edith did had a good
challenge there and i'm going to defer
to her learnings but i did i did say
oh go ahead jason yeah no no no i i did
i did say that um i think
but i do think edith look edith edith is
is an inspirational leader and i think i
think that's a really important point to
dig in on for a moment is
because we've all had some version of
the experience that dave brought up
which is that money or something or you
know the fancy new outside ceo or the
whatever kind of ruins the culture right
and sometimes it's not even the round
it's someone spending tons of money like
a vp comes in and blows 20 million on a
marketing campaign but either this point
having gone from ultra scrappy a 200k
round to a 200 million is her challenge
is no if as a leader you can maintain
that culture even through the unicorn
right and that's a good challenge to the
to the binary thinking here maybe right
yeah i mean um again we're i mean long
storky is creating a category we do
feature management to allow people to
ship software more safely
um we brag about 2 000 customers but to
david's point the vast universe has not
heard of us ever so we
we raised the rounds that we could have
marketing dollars to evangelize a way of
software that we felt was a lot better
yeah and
when
we struggled to raise prior rounds i
actually would run our financial models
and we could get to this point where we
were
break even but i was like
if we could get the money to invest in
marketing i know that it's going to pay
off and i know that we're going to have
happy customers
yeah i don't really understand the
money leads to bad culture point i i
think there's a plenty of great examples
of you know companies that raise no
money that have shitty cultures too i
don't think there's any oh yeah there's
any correlation a lot of ways to fail
yeah yeah so i i mean yeah i think
you have to raise money when you need it
you have to be you know i don't i don't
think that's that's rocket science you
know i didn't it wasn't part of my
calculus that we're going to raise money
and risk our culture i didn't think
about that at all it's not i think the
general theme here is have a plan to
spend it more people die of indigestion
than starvation
but but in this market then you know
back in the day or when i say back in
the day i'm talking about two years ago
the metrics were required for each stage
right you you have a validated market
you raise a seed round
you have some unaffiliated customers you
go and raise an a product market fit
high retention product channel fit your
razor be at scale what are the metrics
today or do they even matter and and i
don't want to set the the audience here
to think that oh your metrics don't
matter just go and raise a lot of money
take some secondary but really what are
the metrics today and jason you're an
investor so maybe uh you kick this off i
think just i want to hear from the panel
but i think that like
when you when you don't understand
a venture round when you see a crazy
competitor doing worse than you that
raises a ton of money like they're just
bear in mind no one's stupid i know it's
easy to think stupid everyone's making a
bet okay and everyone and the people
writing these checks are experienced
with a few exceptions we could talk
about some new money categories
and what's different is
when when when when
dave started expensive buying i started
adobe echo sign those bets were it might
end up being worth 100 million and we're
hoping it might be worth a billion okay
that was the general venture bet so like
valuations had to be in the 20 to 30
million range for an a that's
interesting because you couldn't make
money on a hundred million dollar exit
figure out the seed if the a was much
north it was just math if you're gonna
exit 100 with dilution i only make three
times my money even even at 30 post
right so today every single bet
either has um a bet that someone else is
going to mark it up but it's still the
same bet or that it's going to be a deck
of corn so edith raised that's
interesting think about this for a
moment edith raised it three billion
okay coda had a bill and no one's
sweating on the stage right we used to
sweat right there's no both of them have
committed to a 10 billion dollar
a 10 billion
and maybe a 15 billion dollar out these
are the commitments you made to a 15
billion outcome
and um that and so and so what's weird
in venture is sometimes people will do
that at a billionaire
right um or a hundred millionaires
sometimes they'll do it at a one million
error which just blows our [__] mind
like how can someone at a millionaire
raise it 200
200 but it's the same bet isn't it and
and you saw it right
and so you saw people take that big bet
on you didn't you i don't i don't think
the metrics have fundamentally changed
the multiples have changed i mean i
think the what you said earlier about
expectations that you
everybody builds the same models they
show up with the same
the same uh look at your growth look at
your nr so on and build after forecast
the only change is how long do they
think you can sustain it and uh and as
your point is we're now seeing many
companies sustain it for much longer
just size of market size model like all
those things matter but i i don't i
don't think any
we still have to go through all the same
numbers and say i don't think it's that
different yeah yeah i would think the
numbers are probably the same and
there's just as much [__] as before
they're basically all lies and they're
the same lies uh because basically you
go talk to a vc and they're like
and like you're you know a startup
you've got a couple of customers you're
like scrappy a whole bunch of different
ads and stuff and like cool what is your
cost of customer acquisition now
statistically
it's unfucking knowable like we haven't
done anything sustainably for long
enough to actually have any confidence
in any number but you still get the
question what's your cost of custodian
what's your lifetime value of your
non-existent random set of customers
that you're only looking at for a couple
of months so it's like it's a it's set
seven or it was 700 now 700 it doesn't
[__] matter none of this stuff is
actually statistically relevant they're
all actually noise all of these numbers
is equally valid and so i'd say just say
whatever they want to hear because they
actually don't care they just need to
check a box and they're so excited to
invest money in you because they don't
make their money based upon the outcomes
like the vast majority of a vcs of a
typical vc's income will not come from
their carry it'll come from their
management fees or some slice of that
over the course of their career they
don't give a [__] about the outcome or
the success of your business by and
large they hope they do it's kind of
like the house always wins in the sense
that it's they make money either way
that's like the the vcs are not exactly
stressing about you failing like your
failure actually simplifies their life
in many cases and so
i think that uh yeah the numbers are the
same they're still all [__] but i
think the the the the valuations are
higher because they're willing to
convince their lps of a stronger story
and then they get paid along the way i
think the valuations are higher because
because everyone that's non-traditional
in the sense like tiger global and
everyone else is i spoke to 10 friends
of mine here i caught up with they're
all mid-race
they're all being chased by tiger or
some some non-traditional vc at a much
higher valuation and a conversation that
you couldn't have probably two years ago
every one of them are asking me hey how
much should i take in secondary the
secondary they're like secondary is not
even an ask from them you know people
used to hesitate i need to pay my house
but the secondary is a starting point
from a vc like tiger like hey how much
do you want to take in secondary what's
your viewpoint on that can i can i speak
in defense of metrics for a second yes
yes speak in defenseman
um i do think vcs care about metrics and
i think you as a founder and
entrepreneur should care too yeah like
we
like so i was at product at tripit so
there's some faint rivalry because i
worked at concur
you know we had meticulous dashboards
about you know here's our funnels here's
what we're spending and i took that into
my own company
of you know and you're right at the
early stage what is your cac you have no
idea yeah but like just the in and out
of like uh i think a lot of startups
lose track with our cogs in terms of aws
spending can actually go upside down
um tracking your net retention um being
super meticulous and honest about your
churn
so that when that vc does come knocking
and maybe there is a little bit of a
storytelling that you have all the
numbers ready to go so they're going to
drop it into all their proprietary
models
and whatever pretty slides you make to
razzle dazzle them
[Laughter]
the truth then comes out so like it was
it was weird when we raised they were
like wow your metrics are actually far
better than we expected because
everybody exaggerates
like they they throw out people who
churn within three months where we keep
them in
and
we're then honest about her yeah i mean
i i wouldn't direct some of that too i
mean first off the
i would not lie about your metrics
like you can't
there's obviously some level of
guesswork in every metric but it's how
you're running your business i always i
always my my view of it is show your
investors your board deck that you use
to run your own company and if you're
not willing to do that then that's a
problem because you're running a company
differently of course like with fast
growing cohorts and so on there's only
so much you can know and i mean i take
your point on how well can you really
know kak and nrr if you're just if
you're growing so fast but you're
running your business based on those
decisions too if you think it's a shitty
business don't don't keep running it um
and just take whatever that is and hand
it to your investors i think the
cynicism on vc's making the money off
management fees i don't want to defend
the vc business model there's lots of
different parts of it that work and
don't work but it's absolutely not true
that a vc that makes all their money on
fees is going to continue to raise great
funds and and these i mean all these
funds are returning you know
astronomical results this is now we're
in a phase right now where this is all
being
you know these companies are getting
bigger this is not theoretical anymore
and and for
i think the
idea that vcs aren't looking for that is
i think that's a little cynical um
but you know i i think it's they're just
seeing companies sustain these growth
rates for so much longer and they're
just trying to spot it earlier and
you're then it's guesswork and
everybody's we're all guessing too on
you know is this thing going to work or
not work we're all making a choice to
continue to run our business that way um
but i i think that's what we're seeing
just just seeing multiples increase that
way i like not don't lie just guess with
conviction
guess what's your own conviction right
you're going to run
just show them how you're running your
business and let them make their call
yeah but if you're running your business
on
noise that you call data you're you're
doing it wrong like you should at least
not lie to yourself yeah it's like if
you know that this is not statistically
relevant don't pretend like it is maybe
to pretend to others and guess with
conviction to everyone else but like
don't guess with conviction yourself but
it's also very stage dependent right
like i mean when when when you're
raising a precede or a seed you just
need validation and maybe you have some
unaffiliated customers who've agreed to
a paid pilot with you in in the b2b
space but when you're maybe at half a
million or a million in arr you have
high retention maybe 100 plus nr
customer nps is high
um so those are real metrics right if
customers love your product and they
don't leave and they're paying you for
it a couple years so what is what is
that bar to to hit i guess in today's
market a series a or a series b you
raised a series d right edith or yeah
and it's funny rounds today i i feel
just like i'm like i used to buy a coke
for a nickel type type
type envy i'm like wow the the rounds
that you that they're raising but it
doesn't get easier though you know um
i have a startup i'm friends with they
did a pretty decent sized seed of i'm
not gonna
like four or five million which just
blew my mind
and then
now they're trying to do the same grind
that we did they're like how do we get
our customers how do we get our acv up
how do we you know turn this into
business that that part does not get any
easier yeah like that's the real work
yeah yeah and and so what is what is
that number though maybe that number is
arbitrary but like what is the growth
rate you need and what is the revenue
you need and what is the
retention you need to get a b and a c in
this market
there's no magic formula like a lot of
people come to me for fundraising advice
and it's heartbreaking sometimes because
they think they get fed into the model
and a yes or no gets spit out magic
8-ball style but really it's a yes or a
no and then also do i like your business
did this partner
you know have a bad lunch yesterday and
they're still a little grumpy at the
part or meaning like it's not
it's not
yeah i was not i'm automatic this like
the seed and a are primarily just about
like you and the story you tell like
especially the seed a it's like you have
to have some evidence that like you know
the story has some anecdotal evidence of
some kind of attraction like b it's like
you need to like invent numbers that
seem reasonable and c the numbers have
to start seeming actually like solid and
by the d says like these numbers might
actually mean something
but like
your company is gonna die way before you
have any meaningful numbers uh and so
like by the time like you're either
gonna like succeed or fail way before
you have any numbers that actually
matter and so really the key thing i
think as a founder is being a powerful
storyteller it's like understand uh you
know where the market's going be able to
state with conviction that the market
actually is going there and express a
story for how you're going to get there
and the strength of your story
is like 90 of the success of like your
first couple of rounds i mean i think
that's that's probably the most
important point is investors if i look
at the companies that succeed in raising
don't obviously if you're not growing
and you don't have any of those
indicators it's hard to raise but it's
that
but it's not that's necessarily not
sufficient it investors are making a bet
on your category on your tam on and then
your chances of acquiring it and i think
the great founders there's a reason why
they're all great storytellers is they
they have a way of talking about their
market that helps people dream about it
and i think that's really important in
some cases it's obvious i mean there's
cases where you're creating brand new
categories you have to tell a lot of
stories cases where like our case our
category is somewhat obvious people
spend a lot of money on productivity
software it's all a question of can we
earn our share of that or not but other
cases where you have to tell a lot of
hard stories on why is this market going
to be big and then people will
use that to calculate do i think this
this company can be a meaningful leader
if that or not um i think that's a
really important piece of it
you know i don't know if any of you have
open sourced your decks but one of the
best evolution of of round decks i've
seen is front matild colin she had a
seed series a series b series c decks uh
it's on slideshare check it out there's
you'll see that evolution of deck 1 and
2 very vision focused and then the sort
of series b series c extremely numbers
focused still shares the story but it
shows that we're growing and you know
there's a lot of other examples but
probably
as we were raising i i referenced that
a lot david you raised a while ago you
raised about what 20 million
something like that um yeah but we've
been raised in like i can't remember
like five six years something like that
why did you raise when you raised
because i was dumb
um i mean because like they're just
coming like wait want a million dollars
and i'm like that sounds like a lot of
money yeah i'd like a million dollars
and then like you want more i'm like
it seems like it i think it's i mean i i
don't know i've been pretty cynical up
here but uh i think that comes down to
like silicon valley is just such a
grinder i think that
when we elevate as our heroes the whole
idea of like a serial entrepreneur the
only other time we use the word cereal
is serial killer uh and i think the uh
and there's a similarity to that because
it's like you know we talk about as
founders are like yes you know i work so
hard i built this product i am so
committed to the social network for
kittens that's all i've ever wanted to
do since i was a child i i brought in
it's my teammates no no not my team my
family i worked with my family i grew
them i mentored and then i sold them
again and so it's like what the [__]
it's like the idea that you build a
company and then you just like and
that's where the secondary comes in it's
all like bribery it's like hey how many
show your family will you sell me uh to
go in this round it's like everything
about it is just so morbid uh if you
kind of think about it from like the
perspective of what you're actually
trying to do like it's it's such a
rarity to actually try to build a
business that you want to work at
forever it's such a rarity it's almost
like you're laughed at like when i
started expensify i'm like yeah i'm
going to build a company
i think i can make this insanely
profitable like the most cash efficient
cash cow business
like but but why
like because i i mean profits i'm good
and like i don't know a job is nice and
they're like yeah whatever and
people just roll their eyes at me the
idea of trying to make a company that i
wanted to let work at forever and so i
think that i did it at the start because
i bought into the serial killer
mythology uh and then over time just
realized it's like no that's a horrible
lifestyle it's terrible for your
employees it's not good for
creating real value for your customers
and so forth and so no i think that uh i
did it until i got smart enough to
realize actually that's just not the
future that i wanted to have how many
people here want to build a company they
want to work at forever chauvin's
i'm so glad to see that i'm skeptical
because i would say if that were true
you would be doing a whole bunch of
things that i doubt most of you are
doing like how many of those same people
uh just brought in some kind of outside
executive from their vcs yeah you just
[__] your entire company because by
doing that you just indicated to every
one of your employees you cannot grow
here
that we value skills that you cannot get
here and so basically you put a cap on
all of your best people and
they will absolutely leave
and so i'd say if you care about your
employees it means you have to do things
from day one to demonstrate that you
don't take this giant [__] secondary
round this is like hey employees thank
you so much for grinding uh i'm just
going to be over here with like this
huge check like like the mailchimp guys
like don't worry we're never gonna sell
we're never gonna sell sorry suckers
it's like again and again every single
big round we have the employees get
[__] and there's a whole bunch of
reasons for that it's like the vcs
always win the founders sometimes when
the employees rarely win i think
i mean
you asked the secondary question earlier
and i think um maybe that's one of the
biggest
challenges with secondaries is i i think
we've done a secondary and every round
employees go first founders go last and
i think that's very important one of the
boards i said on spotify let's slow down
for a minute because that's interesting
for folks that don't know what is what
the hell is a secondary um
it used to be very rare in a venture
round that the founders or employees
could sell in that round yeah um and
then maybe i mean i'm we're dating
ourselves and then maybe
five six years ago
when you did a a bigger round 200 300
400 like when you were one of the about
to get big the the vcs would offer you a
little extra money because they wanted
to buy 10 but you they could only get
eight so to bridge that gap
they would say look i can't get my 10
but but edith can i buy a couple of your
shares right sure could i buy a couple
of shares and and um it would happen
later right when you were likely at 20
100 million in ar and then what's
happened the last few years is it's
happened
earlier and earlier and then what
started to happen in hot seat and a
rounds right anyone because bigger funds
would come in and they'd want it and so
it would happen at valuations at 30 40
50 60 million which we could talk about
right
and then it's become hyper aggressive
right as a way just to get into uh an
expensive fire so it's changed but
that's a lot of what to be aware of is
the good news for founders and the
employees boys or centers is a good
topic is you don't have to get to an
exit to make a few bucks anymore okay
and that was maybe my biggest mistake as
a founder is i sold in 2011. i sold in
2011 to adobe and avicii offered me me
10 million dollars in secondary okay to
not sell and i just didn't know what the
what's this what what what do you mean
by sec how does that like i can't get
like my head's hurting what do you i'm
like oh sounds good 10 10 that's more
than i made off my last startup um but i
it was just starting and bear in mind
it's hard right you have to be in the
elite of cat these are elite companies
okay don't don't forget that money's
hard no matter how it looks in
techcrunch it's the elite companies get
launch darkly didn't get 200 million
until it was a top 3 startup right coda
didn't get it either so you have to be
elite so don't get confused but
if you're top decile
you can cash out a little bit like you
can get millions of dollars and not have
to wait 10 20 15 years i think that's i
think that's a key point so um one i
said on spotify board and one of the
spotify sort of opened up the direct
listing they're not the first to do it
but the the biggest at the time one stat
about spotify one of the reasons it
worked sixty percent of employees had
sold at least some stock before the ipo
and that allowed daniel to take a longer
view on it not have to worry about
lockups the the heart of what makes an
ipo work is you constrain supply and
he didn't have to do that because it
wasn't going to be this run for the
exits i think it's really important that
right now you hire employees and many of
them have an offer that they consider to
be completely liquid from a large public
company and offer from yours where they
think their stock is a lottery ticket
and the more you can help them
understand that no no i intend for your
stock to be worth something that's
really important so for me even if it's
symbolic we have a secondary every round
it's always oversubscribed from
investors employees almost never sell
anything and they but you give them the
option they sell as much as they want
and some people have their circumstances
they're buying a house or doing whatever
um but they're making their choice at
that moment am i investing the company
or not and they're hearing a commitment
from the founder that i intend to make
your stock work something so i think
it's actually quite important that's
great yeah i haven't really heard of
that as a regular strategy i think
that's a great model yeah that is indeed
i i want you guys to i think just to
summarize for founders and tell me what
your more recent experiences are i think
if you can make it to 10 million er
and let's use a rough number just in
your head and you're able to raise
north of 20. okay don't be wrong
statistically that's still hard to do no
matter how it looks on techcoach but if
you do it those investors are probably
going to offer you secondary okay so
just know as a founder if you can get to
10 million and you can get i'm not
saying take it right i will tell you the
single best investment i've ever made
the founder refused to take secondary
300 1 billion 3 billion and again at 10
billion you don't have to take it okay
but just knowing that if you're able to
slug it out to that level and one of
these fancy funds wants to invest it's
par for the course today in your term
sheet right there's one one other thing
this is a very tactical suggestion but i
got this early on there's a type of
stock called founders preferred stock
that i don't know why more companies
don't use this but when we were starting
the company i got this advice from
another founder that if you struck your
stock this way people aren't familiar
with it it's often referred to as ff
stock because the founder's fund came up
with it
it works just like common stock except
during a round it can convert into that
series of stock and be sold to the
investor is that seriously we had a
series d they can buy finance preferred
stock converted into series d
mechanically it makes the investors it
makes secondary much more attractive to
the investor because they they can now
take the exact same class of stock um at
coda every employee 20 of their stock is
founded preferred and it's a way of of
telling every employee
we want your equity to feel semi-liquid
i think then then they think like
investors which i think is the heart of
how you hire great people is you make
them feel like investors in the company
and that's a signal that's of how it's
going to work you should open source
that playbook on coda it's not mine yeah
actually it's founders fun did it but
the the uh but we we uh we
did it but they didn't productize it the
way you're talking it in part time yeah
yeah awesome would uh would love to get
uh one other thing i wanted to hit just
just to get the the panel slots on yours
thought like you just when you talked
about front right i was an angel
investor in front and it's and i saw
something happen in front i'm sometimes
slow that now in 2021 has become
commonplace which was the last round in
front which i think was at six or seven
hundred million was all founders
okay it was ryan smith from qualtrics i
forget who else the other billy our
friend friends the billionaires of sas
but they all i think led that round
instead of a vc and at first i'm like
well that's great for the that's great
for matilda the company but now this
happens every week right so many
founders have their own funds
and
should you
should you take advantage of that right
um and do you even need
vcs for a while if you're fortunate
enough to get these alternative sources
of capital these aren't crazy weird
offshore sources of capital it could be
edith could have our own if edith wanted
a 50 million dollar fund i don't know
what you do in angel investing they
would give it to you right your
investors would give it to you if you
wanted so is it
what do you think of this trend is it
good um
i actually was gonna i think it's
weird to be honest weird like i am i
have a full-time job yeah like i'm ceo
and founder of launch darkly that's
that's a full-time 100 hour a week job
right there yeah i mean um i have a very
small
angel fund just because sometimes i was
talking to somebody who wanted advice i
was like you don't need advice you
actually need money like you need to get
that first angel in
and like it's just
it was so inspiring there's somebody i
invested in that i'd only
counseled over the phone
and i met her in person and she said you
were the first person that ever invested
and when you wrote me that email she
just started
getting extremely emotional that
somebody believed in her like on this
entrepreneurial journey yeah
so i think entrepreneurship is really
valuable
and the ability to help people with that
it feels so good
but it's not a full-time job if you're a
founder
yeah absolutely not is that is that your
question should you take it or should
you give it is that the i think there's
a lot of interesting questions but even
in the last 12 months there's all these
new sources of capital and you can raise
a seat or even an a today
without ever needing
a traditional vc but still from folks
you would look up to and respect it this
wasn't even possible i don't think fully
a year ago right
i think the risk with that is that the
pro rata and a lot of risks and
subsequent rounds just gets bigger and
bigger and bigger
yeah
so i wanted to get into the process
right like you raised a 200 million
dollar round everyone here or how many
people have raised a round of funding
here
and how many people
wanna
are looking to raise their next round
okay a whole bunch yeah what is the
process you guys followed maybe starting
with david because you raised 20 million
to jason's point like the world's
changed so much and like i don't know
anything about this world
it really
we'll get you up to speed yeah yeah yeah
did you did you got better it's better
is it isn't it better
it's better right
i think the early rounds are entirely
different than the later rounds but
let's say an a or a b right like we
edith raised a d but i don't know if
it's that much dissimilar than a c or a
b for the early rounds the process is
weird i mean you're you're you're
meeting people you're you know everybody
is not quite sure what the business is
there's no metrics to look at it's how
well you tell your story so on the later
rounds it's a little bit more standard
this is these are the set of people you
can talk to these set of people are too
early you said are too late they require
this type of model of doing it i mean
the biggest thing i tell people is
compress the process you can you know i
think one thing we can all agree on you
should spend most your time not
fundraising and so do whatever you can
to take that process and when you start
it finish it as fast as possible turns
out that's actually very helpful for the
process because there is an incredible
amount of fomo in these processes and so
you know
make sure at one founder that um
he's
raised money for five different
companies and i guess he's a serial
entrepreneur
and the um
and his rule of thumb is uh no process
over a week so he'll start on mondays
tell everybody here's here's here's what
i'm raising i'm taking the best offer at
the end of the week and if i don't have
a great offer then it is what it is um
but i'm not letting it expand out i
think i think compressing the process is
very important that way but it's very
different early and late yeah i mean um
early
again it's been a while for me but
earlier just trying to scrap money
together yeah like i literally had a
spreadsheet of everybody i knew that had
money
like because i'd been like i'd been
early at tripit i'd been at vignette
i've been at concur and i was like do
they have money uh can i ask them for
something
and
and i just worked my way through the
list and scrapped together the money
um but late stage it is much more about
running it more like an enterprise sales
process because your own time is
valuable yeah yeah four to six weeks
sales cycle get people bring people
along at the same time
um and and it's also very stressful
process right when you got a lot of vcs
in the mix everyone wants you to meet
somebody that
let me show you what i can do for you
let me introduce you to this partner
that partner everyone else it's a huge
time suck so we actually you know i can
speak about this we we were pulled into
the series b preemptively with 21 vcs
and i was having a kid and we we had all
these new execs that just been for two
two months
and we ran this i mean we got pulled
into the process but the following
friday when everyone wanted to dive in
the data room like 21 people i punted
the raise we we just got together a
board and said timing is not right execs
have not been at bats for even two
quarters how do we know even this model
they're putting together is going to
even play out so we just punted it and
we said let's let's talk in q1 but that
created a whole bunch of fomo
them reaching out to a board saying do
they want in secondary make sure like
can we preempt all of this stuff right
it's just as a founder you want to run
your company
um and you should spend all your time
running the company so compress the
process i completely yeah i think those
those early days it's like
yeah i think there's there's so much
hustle so i'd say some specific advice
would be one
make your slide deck full of pictures
but no numbers um and uh two when they
say and then when you reach out to a vc
you say like i'm not sure if i'm gonna
raise but i'm thinking about it and i
really like you so i'd love your advice
because it's kind of like um if you want
money ask for advice because if you ask
for money you're just going to get
advice that was in a song by pitbull
i'd say that the converse though is if
you're if it's an angel just ask for the
money because otherwise they don't know
like that was no no everyone everyone
likes to feel like they're super smart
you're like you're so smart i love your
advice i read your [__] um and uh and so
i just but i'm not i'm thinking about
raising what do you think and of course
they're in venture capitalists their
answer is always going to be yes um and
so uh
don't never mail your deck ahead of time
because then they'll make their decision
before they see you um show up
gesticulate speak very loudly swear some
a little bit you know be edgy
and then say like hey it's really great
um
and
i think and just say whatever number
they want to hear because it doesn't
matter anyway um
and
uh yeah and just like oh and then but
even then before that
i would probably
do a kickstarter free money something
like that as much as i can get i do an
ico is that a thing anymore i would try
it anyway because why not david i don't
know if you're just trolling us at this
point
there's all sorts of great options out
there like as the early days you got to
[__] hustle um and so yeah i would do
all these things i would scrape together
all of this and i would avoid the vcs as
long as possible because they're the
devil now don't get me wrong sometimes
you need to do a deal with the devil but
you're probably going to get [__] in
the process um and so and that's okay
maybe that's just acceptable for the
path you're going to take
so dave and i agree on one thing i don't
have a deck
um
okay
don't have a deck yeah
out of all that one actually i'll go one
step further the deck is actually i
agree tell your story whichever you can
i i like to use my whatever i presented
the board last as my as my starting
point um but the the one thing i would
encourage writing is write the
investment memo that you think they
should write to their partners one of
the things i think founders often miss
is
you're pitching a person who's going to
become your advocate right and then
think about an enterprise sales term
this is your sponsor that person that
person cannot say yes that person can
only say no so help that person turn
around to their partners and pick your
story on your behalf so that's the one
thing i would encourage writing and
you're even at the end of your meeting
with them say well how would you pitch
my company yeah yeah and then you can
see if you've just like oh that's always
like if you're asking for advice then if
they ever catch you in something you say
like man thank you so much for finding
that how would you recommend i answer
that question that you just caught me on
um because it puts them into a
collaborative mindset uh rather than an
antagonistic one can i just add one like
quantitative piece on this in order at a
time so did you you guys know mark
roberts he spoke on tuesday he was
sierra hubspot so he he's at harvard
business school now and he he started
investing a couple years ago i think he
raised an 8 million dollar initial fund
for operators in revenue and he just
raised 80. and i was talking with him in
the green room um and i'm like how's the
investing going and he's like you gave
me some great advice he's like yeah when
we started
you know two or three years ago we'd get
three to four interesting
interesting inbounds a week he said now
we get a hundred
not random not randos not weird inmails
a hundred good companies so
all there's all this advice on the
internet but remember you have to
actually break out so much more than you
used to this this coffee advice i will
tell you i didn't during our digital
events i did one called uh it was called
sastra monday and i asked keith for a
boy david sacks eileen lee christophe
chance and um sacha patel from homebrew
all sitting on massive gains every
single one of them said they read every
single cold email they get and every
single one of them invests in one week
so that's the way the world changed now
that sounds interesting but even if mark
who i love but is new to adventure gets
a hundred
there are so many sas companies today if
he gets a hundred how are you gonna
break through that hundred do you want
coffee do you want to not send the deck
do you want to just talk about your
theory of collaboration software or
feature flags i don't think any of that
works anymore when there's a when mark's
getting and he's i mean he's got a brand
new he's got magnet but a hundred a week
and then he flies out disaster he's
another hundred behind because because
it came out from boston so just think
about how the odds have changed and
don't get all the headline things to
confuse because then
statistically in a way odds might be
harder right but once you break through
it's easier right once i mean launch
darkly [__] 200k
from concur people but now 200 million
in a week right i mean it's just but you
had to break through to the obvious
category right so just don't forget
those 100 a week but that's that's okay
so you can process 100 even with the
team it's too many isn't it i don't know
what anybody says interesting you could
do like three
right if you really want to have a
conversation as ceos how many deep
conversations can you have a week a
couple right
a couple so just think about the odds
but that's a good question to perhaps
close out with or maybe we'll do another
one
what is the best way to build
relationships with vcs and break out
you're getting 100 in your inbox jason's
a proponent of cold emails some vcs are
not but like what is the best way to
build relationships what is the best way
to get that coffee meeting when when
mark roberts or jason lemkin's inboxes
with thousands of emails
i think you would deliver results first
and then they wait for them to come to
you focus all your time on building a
product that customers care about and
then the vcs will care about you and
doing the reverse i think is very very
hard and also quick pitch i'm doing a
panel where i'm doing another session at
11 30. please stop by it's called conan
economics and so it's going to be
exciting
uh this is surprising but i actually
agree with david again
um you know focus on your business
you know focus on your business build up
your customer base your customers will
start talking they are the ones who will
tell the vc what they're using in-house
or what they
what what the new tools are and that
will build your brand for you
um to build the actual relationship i do
really like it sounds stereotypical but
like a coffee or a lunch and just
slotting that into your schedule every
month
so that way you can be 12 different vcs
in a year
and so that when it is time to actually
run a fundraising process you're not
starting from a cold start of like
clever do i even like this person at all
do they like me do they get me i think i
think the um
obviously agreed on the focus on your
business first
i'd give two two suggestions one is when
you're pitching
um take advice from people one stage
investors that are one stage uh forward
or back from wherever you're pitching
just go you know you're pitching people
for a normal b go go talk to a few
people that would normally be c and d
raisers show them this is the investment
memo i'm pre-writing what do you think
and they'll know they're not in the
market for it they'll give you real
advice um and they're all they all know
they're kind of i want to be involved in
this race it's like i'm getting an early
peak it's something my might come later
you can do that early too it's like go
go have the seed investor guide you on
your a um that's one thing the other
thing is just fine i mean they're all
people just find a way to connect with
them that doesn't have anything to do
with raising money and i always i always
told candidates ask me that question all
the time how do i yeah how do i get a
job at google i said number one thing
don't show up in the recruiting folder
show up in some other folder of why why
you're reaching out and everybody has
different ways of doing it
you know for me i have a lot of other
because of the way coda works and the
way we we like to promote ourselves i'll
generally uh reach out to people about
how they run their companies how their
other companies run that turns out to be
a very good way for me to stay connected
with people everybody has their own way
of doing it some people do it with you
know with sports or events or whatever
but i i think just don't show up in the
fundraising folder until you actually
want to be in the fundraising folder
okay but but jason i think we're just
about overloid yeah just just uh i want
to take one last question it's going to
be fun but but for you if you got three
intros like if mark roberge introduces
to somebody and maybe two other vcs you
really respect saying hey you got to
talk to this portfolio company you're
going to take that intro right or no
i just want to say two things and maybe
let's let's wrap up because this panel
is going to go forever one is don't
don't fall into the trap that you have
to have a warm intro to meet an investor
cold emails work i did this thing online
i asked five of the top investors
including eileen keith they all read the
cult now no one at the series c level
reads the cold email okay because they
all assume they'll assume that companies
at this stage know everybody it don't
work but um don't assume you have to it
sucks if you're not privileged it sucks
if you didn't come out of google or y
combinator it does suck but you can
break through it this is our job as
founders it's it so don't feel like cold
emails don't work they do work and the
one thing i just wanna do all the advice
you hear it's back and forth
edith said something which distills all
of it like fundraising is sales and
fundraising has pre-brand sales and post
brand sales just like sas does and once
you have a brand it's all different they
will come to you it doesn't mean you'll
close all the deals but the leads start
coming in in venture but don't confuse
the two stages until you have a brand
right until you're maybe even a 10
million ar
it's sales hustle and if you think
hiding stuff is good in sales [__] go
hide the deck okay if you think coffee
enterprise sales works for you go do it
but remember it's sales and and put i
say in sales put your best foot forward
do it the way you know how to do
and it's selling stock and and founders
get really really good at it you're
hearing almost too good of advice
because by the time you've sold stock
five times you've met with 500 investors
and founders get [__] good at this
right but it's sales and if you're not
good at it be thoughtful and take the
risk to do whatever it takes to close
the deal great advice thank you
[Music]
you